# Phase 1 Sprint 5 - PM Report Template

## Team Information [50 points]


### Team Information:


* Number: 30
* Name: pioneers
* Mentor: <Tina Pham, tip226@lehigh.edu>
* Weekly live & synchronous meeting:
   * without mentor: Sundays 3pm-4pm, Monday/Wednesday 12:10pm-1:35pm
   * with mentor: Tuesdays 6:15pm-7:15pm


### Team Roles:


* Project Manger: <Elif Ozturk, eeo224@lehigh.edu>
   * Has this changed from last week (if so, why)?
   * Yes, because we entered a new phase, with everybody being assigned to new roles.
* Backend developer: <Samir Hassan, ssh325@lehigh.edu>
* Admin developer: <Thomas Richardson, tkr225@lehigh.edu>
* Web developer: <Owen Fleischer, odf226@lehigh.edu>
* Mobile developer: <Ethan First, erf225@lehigh.edu>


### Essential links for this project:


* Team's Dokku URL(s)
   * <http://team-pioneers.dokku.cse.lehigh.edu>
* Team's software repo (bitbucket)
   * <https://bitbucket.org/team-30-workspace/cse216-2023fa-team-30/src/master/>
* Team's Trello board
   * <https://trello.com/w/cse2162023fateam30/home>




## General questions


1. Did the PM for this week submit this report (If not, why not?)? 
Yes.


2. Has the team been gathering for a weekly, in-person meeting(s)? If not, why not? 
Yes, we met earlier in the week on Thursday to get a head start on this sprint as it was due Sunday instead of the normal Tuesday deadline. This helped overcome a lot of challenges that we met with on Thursday, so that we had more time to complete the rest of the deliverables on our regularly scheduled Sunday meeting. We met twice on Sunday, once for a work session to complete the artifacts, and another to record the video.


3. Summarize how well the team met the requirements of this sprint. 
The team met the requirements of the this sprint really well. When we met we divided up the task based on relevance of the artifact to the given person's role in this sprint. For this reason, Owen and Ethan took the task of the web and mobile interface design. Ethan worked on the state machine drawing as well. Meanwhile Thomas worked on the system drawing. I worked on the user stories with help from both Thomas and Owen. Samir worked on the entity relationship diagram and routes. Those in the programming roles wrote up a summary of the sort of testing that they would see. Overall, the team did a really good job on distributing the work that was needed to get done. The app design was mainly in part due to the web and mobile positions, being Owen and Ethan, who took lead on this. We are all still discussing different app design developments, such as what we need to include for this sprint specifically and things in the future. 
   
4. Report on each member's progress (sprint and phase activity completion) – "what is the status?"
   * If incomplete, what challenges are being overcome, how are they being overcome, and by when will the team member be able to finish?
   * If complete, how do you know everyone completed the work, and at a satisfactory level?  
Every member on the teams progress is complete. I know everybody completed their work as we presented it during our team meeting for the video. Prior to the video we made sure to finish all of the artifacts so that we wouldn’t have to spend more time finishing our deliverables. In terms of phase completion, the new sprint just started, and we discussed during class time today the action that is going to be taken by each team member. For instance, Owen will be using React for the web. Thomas will be testing for this admin role. Ethan will be using Flutter. Samir will be making sure his backend connects to the web/mobile. I made a new trello board for the next sprint and I showed my team members so they can keep track of their progress. Additionally, this allows me to see their progress as well. 


5. Summary of "code review" during which each team member discussed and showed their progress – "how did you confirm the status?"  
Since there was no coding portion for this sprint 5, I am going to discuss how I will conduct code reviews going forward. I will conduct them in person and one-on-one with each team member. This may be on the same day as our meeting with our mentor, as this will ensure that everybody has their portion done on time (since we meet on Tuesday nights). The code reviews can be conducted earlier in the day prior to the meeting to ensure everything runs smoothly with our mentor meeting. 
   
6. What did you do to encourage the team to be working on phase activities "sooner rather than later"?  
We met on Thursday instead of just Sunday to get a head start on some things, as this sprint was due on Sunday instead of Tuesday. On Sunday, I made sure to communicate with my team to ensure that they could all make the Sunday 3pm meeting. Everybody but Samir was able to make it as he had a prior obligation to attend to. Although, during the meeting we texted Samir the work that he would need to get done before our meeting for the video, which he did. 


7. What did you do to encourage the team to help one another?  
Instead of sitting around and figuring out what everyone is doing, actively communicating who is doing what tasks during the meeting helped encourage the team to get our work done. We kept track of the artifacts we had left, and finishing this sooner rather than later is helpful in encouragement for the team. 


8. How well is the team communicating?  
Everyone is communicating fairly well. Whenever someone sends a text, there is always at least one person who replies, more often than not it is many of us who reply. Especially if somebody has a problem and they need help with it, the team replies and tries to help out. During meetings we make sure to make small talk and get to learn more about each other in small ways. For instance, asking what everyone is doing for pacing break. We will be spending a lot of time with each other this semester so getting to know one another a little better will be very beneficial for the project. 
   
9. Discuss expectations the team has set for one another, if any. Please highlight any changes from last week.  
Since we are switching from individual work to team based work, everything will be highly dependent on one another. The backend branch is the root of everything, so that needs to be properly set up by Samir so that Owen, Ethan and Thomas can all do their respective roles. The main expectation is for everyone to finish their deliverables by next Tuesday. We have also discussed the likelihood of meeting a lot more frequently as technical issues are bound to be more frequent from now on. 


10. If anything was especially challenging or unclear, please make sure this is [1] itemized, [2] briefly described, [3] its status reported (resolved or unresolved), and [4] includes critical steps taken to find resolution.  
       * Challenge: Not knowing if we needed to code for this sprint. 
       * Status: (resolved)
       * Description: We were unsure based on the rubric description if any real coding development needed to get done. 
       * Critical steps taken to find resolution: Samir reached out to our mentor, Tina, and she stated that this sprint is primarily meant for the design of phase 1. The coding will begin in sprint 6. 




## Project Management
Self-evaluation of PM performance


0. When did your team meet with your mentor, and for how long?  
We met with Tina last Tuesday at 6:15pm, for at least one hour. I personally was only able to stay until 7pm as I have a night class. However, I believe the rest of the team stayed a bit longer to get their tutorials checked off and any other issues resolved with Dokku. 


1. Describe your use of Trello.  Did you have too much detail?  Too little?  Just enough? Did you implement policies around its use (if so, what were they?)?  
I created a board for both sprint 5 and now sprint 6. The sprint 5 trello board was a little bit crazy and all over the place, so for this next sprint 6 I made it a lot more condensed so that each role can click on their card to see their checklist. 


2. How did you conduct team meetings?  How did your team interact outside of these meetings?  
Conduct team meetings in a way that everyone knows what they are doing. For instance, everyone benign assigned to work on artifacts on Sunday. Outside of meetings the team gets along really well. We are getting more comfortable with one another and getting to know each other better. 


3. What techniques (daily check-ins/scrums, team programming, timelines, Trello use, slack use, group design exercises) did you use to mitigate risk? Highlight any changes from last week.  
Mainly using our text groupchat as this is an easy and efficient way to reach the team the fastest. For example, Samir mentioned he wasn’t able to come to the meeting at 3pm on Sunday, so during the meeting time we discussed the things he had to get done. I sent him a text in the group chat saying what he needed to get done before 8pm which was when we were going to record. He responded saying he would be able to do it, and by the time we were recording everything was set in place and ready. 


4. Describe any difficulties you faced in managing the interactions among your teammates. Were there any team issues that arose? If not, what do you believe is keeping thins so constructive?  
There were no issues with interactions among team members. I believe the reason why is because we all easily ask for help from one another and are all honest with what we understand or don’t understand. If one person needs help, somebody helps without any questions asked. 


5. What is your biggest concern as you think ahead to the next sprint?  
Managing that everybody can get their work done on time, but also since this is the first time that we are doing this group based instead of individual tutorials, working through issues that may arise with collaboration. 


6. Describe the most significant obstacle or difficulty your team faced.  
Getting the team deliverables done on time, as with some of the requirements a lot of did not know what it had asked for, so we had to teach other what the rubric asked for.  


7. What might you suggest the team or the next PM "start", "stop", or "continue" doing in the next sprint?  
We should continue being honest with what our status is and asking for help when we need it. We should start meeting more frequently and earlier than just Sundays, although class time will be incredibly helpful and important for this. 
   
8. How well did you estimate time during the early part of the sprint? How did your time estimates change as the sprint progressed?  
I did not think that the artifacts or the video would take very long, but it turned out that it took quite some time for everything to come together. We spent 90 min during our first meeting on Sunday, and then another 90 min while we were getting ready to record. I also did not anticipate that we would record a video that was 15 min long but we needed this time to show everything properly. 


9. What aspects of the project would cause concern for your customer right now, if any?  
Mainly just the fact that we have the barebones set up for now, but given that this will be resolved with the sprint 6 deliverables, it's not too much cause for concern as of now. 